README.md, before:

# Magic Mirror Module: MMM-GrafanaChart
This [MagicMirror²](http://robstechlog.com/2017/06/25/building-a-big-magicmirror-with-metal-frame-the-summary/) module allows you to display a chart generated by [grafana](https://grafana.com/).

<b>Important Note:</b> This module requires a running grafana installation. To install Grafana, follow the official [installation instructions](http://docs.grafana.org/installation/).

<b>[This blogpost](http://www.robstechlog.com/2017/06/30/personal-weather-chart-module/) describes how to install and use grafana and build a weatherchart.</b><br>
![example of a grafana weather chart](https://github.com/SvenSommer/MMM-GrafanaChart/blob/master/weather_explained.gif?raw=true)

## Installation of the module

In your terminal, go to your MagicMirror's Module folder:
````
cd ~/MagicMirror/modules
````

Clone this repository:
````
git clone https://github.com/SvenSommer/MMM-GrafanaChart
````

Configure the module in your `config.js` file.

## Configuration
<b> Configuration of the Grafana </b>

Change the grafana.ini to have the following settings
````javascript
[auth.anonymous]

# enable anonymous access
enabled = true 

# specify role for unauthenticated users
org_role = Viewer

[security]
# https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/installation/configuration/#allow-embedding
allow_embedding = true
````
<b> Configuration of the MagicMirror config-file </b>

To use this module, you have to specify where your grafana installation is hosted and which chart you'd like to display.


Add the module to the modules array in the `config/config.js` file:
````javascript
modules: [
	{
	 module: 'MMM-GrafanaChart',
		 position: 'top_right',   // This can be any of the regions.
		 config: {
				version: "6", // Only add this line if you are using Grafana verison 6 or greater
				id: "as8fA8na", // Only Mandartory if you are using Grafana verison 6 or greater found after /d/ in the url
				host: "grafana_host", //Mandatory. See url when displaying within grafana
				port: 3000, // Mandatory.
				https: false, // Optional. Consider using TLS for your data. Default: false
				dashboardname: "weatherforecast", // Mandatory.
				orgId: 1, // Mandatory.
				panelId: 2, // Mandatory.
				width: "100%", // Optional. Default: 100%
				height: "100%", // Optional. Default: 100%
				refreshInterval: 900 //Optional. Default: 900 = 1/4 hour
			}
	},
]
````

Everything needed is extractable from the <code>url</code> when you're viewing your chart using grafana in your browser.

<b>Grafana version 6.x</b>

![url provides needed information](grafana_version_6_explanations_image.png)

<b>Grafana version 5 or older</b>

![url provides needed information](https://github.com/SvenSommer/MMM-GrafanaChart/blob/master/config_url.png?raw=true)
## Optional configuration options

The following properties can be configured:


<table width="100%">
	<!-- why, markdown... -->
	<thead>
		<tr>
			<th>Option</th>
			<th width="100%">Description</th>
		</tr>
	<thead>
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td><code>width</code></td>
			<td>Width of the displayed chart. <code>'150 px'</code> or <code>'50 %'</code> are valid options.	<br><b>Default value:<code>"100%"</code></b></td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td><code>height</code></td>
			<td>Height of the displayed chart. <code>'150 px'</code> or <code>'50 %'</code> are valid options.	<br><b>Default value:<code>"100%"</code></b></td>
		</tr>
			<tr>
			<td><code>refreshInterval</code></td>
			<td>Update interval of the diagram in seconds.
				<br><b>Default value:</b> <code>900</code>  = 15 \* 60 (four times every hour)
			</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

Commit message:

Added support for Grafana v7.x. Refactored to prevent duplication of urls. Added support for time ranges using from and to.

README.md, after:

# Magic Mirror Module: MMM-GrafanaChart
This [MagicMirror²](http://robstechlog.com/2017/06/25/building-a-big-magicmirror-with-metal-frame-the-summary/) module allows you to display a chart generated by [grafana](https://grafana.com/).

<b>Important Note:</b> This module requires a running grafana installation. To install Grafana, follow the official [installation instructions](http://docs.grafana.org/installation/).

<b>[This blogpost](http://www.robstechlog.com/2017/06/30/personal-weather-chart-module/) describes how to install and use grafana and build a weatherchart.</b><br>
![example of a grafana weather chart](https://github.com/SvenSommer/MMM-GrafanaChart/blob/master/weather_explained.gif?raw=true)

## Installation of the module

In your terminal, go to your MagicMirror's Module folder:
````
cd ~/MagicMirror/modules
````

Clone this repository:
````
git clone https://github.com/SvenSommer/MMM-GrafanaChart
````

Configure the module in your `config.js` file.

## Configuration
<b> Configuration of the Grafana </b>

Change the grafana.ini to have the following settings
````javascript
[auth.anonymous]

# enable anonymous access
enabled = true 

# specify role for unauthenticated users
org_role = Viewer

[security]
# https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/installation/configuration/#allow-embedding
allow_embedding = true
````
<b> Configuration of the MagicMirror config-file </b>

To use this module, you have to specify where your grafana installation is hosted and which chart you'd like to display.


Add the module to the modules array in the `config/config.js` file:
````javascript
modules: [
	{
	 module: 'MMM-GrafanaChart',
		 position: 'top_right',   // This can be any of the regions.
		 config: {
				version: "7", // Only add this line if you are using Grafana verison 7, 6 or other
				id: "as8fA8na", // Only Mandatory if you are using Grafana verison 6 or greater found after /d/ in the url
				host: "grafana_host", //Mandatory. See url when displaying within grafana
				port: 3000, // Mandatory.
				https: false, // Optional. Consider using TLS for your data. Default: false
				dashboardname: "weatherforecast", // Mandatory.
				orgId: 1, // Mandatory.
				panelId: 2, // Mandatory.
                                from: "now-2h", // Optional
                                to: "now", // Optional
				width: "100%", // Optional. Default: 100%
				height: "100%", // Optional. Default: 100%
				refreshInterval: 900 //Optional. Default: 900 = 1/4 hour
			}
	},
]
````

Everything needed is extractable from the <code>url</code> when you're viewing your chart using grafana in your browser.

<b>Grafana version 7.x</b>
http://grafana_host:3000/d/TPqkZ-IGk/health?orgId=1&from=now-2d&to=now

<b>Grafana version 6.x</b>

![url provides needed information](grafana_version_6_explanations_image.png)

<b>Grafana version 5 or older</b>

![url provides needed information](https://github.com/SvenSommer/MMM-GrafanaChart/blob/master/config_url.png?raw=true)
## Optional configuration options

The following properties can be configured:


<table width="100%">
	<!-- why, markdown... -->
	<thead>
		<tr>
			<th>Option</th>
			<th width="100%">Description</th>
		</tr>
	<thead>
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td><code>width</code></td>
			<td>Width of the displayed chart. <code>'150 px'</code> or <code>'50 %'</code> are valid options.	<br><b>Default value:<code>"100%"</code></b></td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td><code>height</code></td>
			<td>Height of the displayed chart. <code>'150 px'</code> or <code>'50 %'</code> are valid options.	<br><b>Default value:<code>"100%"</code></b></td>
		</tr>
			<tr>
			<td><code>refreshInterval</code></td>
			<td>Update interval of the diagram in seconds.
				<br><b>Default value:</b> <code>900</code>  = 15 \* 60 (four times every hour)
			</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>
